---
sidebar_position: 40
---

# Template

Template are the best way to create node in three node, template implement interface org.anasoid.jmc.core.wrapper.template.**JmcTemplate** and teh quick way is the extends org.anasoid.jmc.core.wrapper.template.**AbstractJmcTemplate**.

All node in JMC can add children as wrapper or as template, template can construct complex content.

AbstractJmcTemplate has 3 methods to override:

1. abstract JmcWrapperBuilder<?> **init**() : Create the builder.

1. void **prepareBuilder**(T builder) {} : prepare builder adding children node, attribute ....

1. void **prepareWrapper**(W wrapper) {}: Alter wrapper after been generated by the builder.

## Example

Home Page is a simple template, we can use it whn needed with calling constructor (new HomePageTemplate())

```java

public class HomePageTemplate
    extends AbstractJmcTemplate<
        HTTPSamplerProxyWrapper, HTTPSamplerProxyWrapper.HTTPSamplerProxyWrapperBuilder> {

  @Override
  protected JmcWrapperBuilder<?> init() {
    return HTTPSamplerProxyWrapper.builder().withPath("/");
  }
}

```

Contact us is Http Sampler with email as input.

```java

public class ContactUsPageTemplate
    extends AbstractJmcTemplate<
        HTTPSamplerProxyWrapper, HTTPSamplerProxyWrapper.HTTPSamplerProxyWrapperBuilder> {

  private String email;

  public ContactUsPageTemplate(String email) {
    this.email = email;
  }

  @Override
  protected void prepareBuilder(HTTPSamplerProxyWrapperBuilder builder) {
    super.prepareBuilder(builder);
    builder
        .withMethod(HttpMethod.POST)
        .addArgument("email", email)
        .addArgument(
            "content",
            "lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit '..");
  }

  @Override
  protected JmcWrapperBuilder<?> init() {
    return HTTPSamplerProxyWrapper.builder().withPath("/contactus");
  }
}


```

In this test we add sampler home as contactus with variable 'email'.

```java


    TestPlanWrapper testPlanWrapper =
        TestPlanWrapper.builder()
            .addThread(
                ThreadGroupWrapper.builder()
                    .addSampler(new HomePageTemplate())
                    .addSampler(new ContactUsPageTemplate("${email}"))
                    .build())
            .build();
```

## SimplePageTemplate

org.anasoid.jmc.core.wrapper.template.samplers.http.**SimplePageTemplate** is helper to construct template with the following attribute name,domain,path, method

> It's recommended to extend from SimplePageTemplate and use constructor without argument.

## SimplePageControllerTemplate

org.anasoid.jmc.core.wrapper.template.samplers.http.controller.**SimplePageControllerTemplate** is a helper that can include HttpSampler in a Controller, the controller is of type RecordingControllerWrapper.

The name of controller will be "**{samplername} CTRL**"

SimplePageControllerTemplate has 3 methods to override:

1. void **prepareSamplerBuilder**(HTTPSamplerProxyWrapperBuilder builder) : prepare main sampler, builder is available and can alter sampler.
2. void **beforeMainSampler**(RecordingControllerWrapperBuilder controller) : called before add man sampler to controller, we Alter controller at this level.
3. void **afterMainSampler**(RecordingControllerWrapperBuilder controller) : called after add man sampler to controller, we Alter controller at this level.
